Currently, Omibio uses an overall structure based on bio objects and analysis functions.
- **Sequence**: omibio base class, an enhanced string class. It stores only sequences. It features a strict mode for validating base legality and automatic sequence type (DNA & RNA) detection. Variable and provides basic sequence methods such as translation, transcription, and complementation. Most analysis functions can directly accept the Sequence class. Most generative sequence functions (such as consensus()) return Sequence objects.
- **Polypeptide**: Similar to the Sequence class, it stores amino acid sequences and provides related methods. It is the return object of `translate_nt()`.
- **SeqInterval**: A class for storing sequence strings and their positions. Used as the return group for analytical functions (such as find_orf()). It can include information such as sequence ID, GC content, strand, and frame. Provides methods for converting to a Sequence object.
- **AnalysisResult**:the returns of analysis functions (such as find_orf()), and it internally stores a list containing `SeqInterval` objects. Includes relevant information and metadata. Some Analysis objects have built-in visualization function interfaces (`.plot()`).
- **SeqEntry**: It internally contains a Sequence object and related information such as the sequence id and quality score. The returns of file parsing functions such as `read_fasta()` includes SeqEntry objects.
- **SeqCollections**: The returns of file parsing functions such as `read_fasta()`, Internally, it is a dictionary where the sequence ID is the key and the corresponding SeqEntry is the value. Accessing it directly yields a Sequence object, not a SeqEntry object. Provides relevant class methods.
